Dimensions and Measures-
Dimensions are fields that are considered as independent variables. Different aggregate functions cannot be applied on them.For eg, colname.It is marked blue
Measures are field values that are considered as dependent variables. We can apply aggregate functions on them. For eg,col values.It is marked green.

----------
Q.
Ceo of the supermarket wants to view-
1. Category wise sales and profit in a single sheet--------------Category vs Sales and Category vs Profit
2.State wise sales in US and Canada region-----------Visual Display of State wise sales in US and Canada region
---------------------Raw sheet of State wise sales in US and Canada region
3.Monthly sales trends from jan to dec from 2019 ,2020,2021,and 2022 till date.----------Month Sales trends from Jan to Dec from2019 ,2020,till date

--------------
Different data types in tableau-
--------------
text(string values),date values,date and time values,numerical values,Boolean values(relational only),geographical values(using with maps),cluster group

----------------
Different file typesusedin tableau-
-----------------
You can save your work using several different Tableau specific file types: workbooks, bookmarks, packaged data files, data extracts, and data connection files. Each of these file types are described below. For related details, see Save Your Work.

Workbooks (.twb) – Tableau workbook files have the .twb file extension. Workbooks hold one or more worksheets, plus zero or more dashboards and stories.

Bookmarks (.tbm) – Tableau bookmark files have the .tbm file extension. Bookmarks contain a single worksheet and are an easy way to quickly share your work. For more information, see Save a bookmark(Link opens in a new window).

Packaged Workbooks (.twbx) – Tableau packaged workbooks have the .twbx file extension. A packaged workbook is a single zip file that contains a workbook along with any supporting local file data and background images. This format is the best way to package your work for sharing with others who don’t have access to the original data. For more information, see Packaged Workbooks.

Extract (.hyper or .tde) – Depending on the version the extract was created in, Tableau extract files can have either the .hyper or .tde file extension. Extract files are a local copy of a subset or entire data set that you can use to share data with others, when you need to work offline, and improve performance. For more information, see Extract Your Data.

Data Source (.tds) – Tableau data source files have the .tds file extension. Data source files are shortcuts for quickly connecting to the original data that you use often. Data source files do not contain the actual data but rather the information necessary to connect to the actual data as well as any modifications you've made on top of the actual data such as changing default properties, creating calculated fields, adding groups, and so on. For more information, see Save Data Sources.

Packaged Data Source (.tdsx) – Tableau packaged data source files have the .tdsx file extension. A packaged data source is a zip file that contains the data source file (.tds) described above as well as any local file data such as extract files (.hyper or .tde), text files, Excel files, Access files, and local cube files. Use this format to create a single file that you can then share with others who may not have access to the original data stored locally on your computer. For more information, see Save Data Sources.

These files can be saved in the associated folders in the My Tableau Repository directory, which is automatically created in your My Documents folder when you install Tableau. Your work files can also be saved in other locations, such as your desktop or a network directory.

----------------
coland row shelves-
-----------------
Col shelve creates the col of a table.
Row shelves create the row of a table.

----------
Marks Card-
-------------

---------
Filter shelves-
---------

----------
Page Shelves-
-----------


-------------
Sorting Data--
------------
Data cn be sorted invizualization view using-
1,.Quickly sort from axis,header or field label
2.sort options while creating viz.
3.nested sorts 

------------------------------
What is BI,explain with eg.
Business Intelligence.It is converting raw data into materialistic data which u can read. 

What is Tableau
Tableau is software toconvert data into statistical form

Products of tableau
tableau desktop,tableau public,tableau server-its like tableau online but u can schedule data,u have different teams working on it,
tablea reader , for reading only-means u cannot modify it, tableau online-with14 day trial, her u cannot create or edit set.
,tableau prep-for data minimg-data preperation u can say.

Features of tableau
We can view tableau in mobiles.T

What are different connection used in tableau?
cloud,csv files, sql,cbquery,excel,db2,  etc.almost 76 connectors 

Difference between Live and Extract connection?
The changes done in live connection is reflectedin realtime.Extract when we have to manually update the dataset,or we have to set timein advance for changes to reflect

What are dimension and measure?
Dimension is qualitative with colnames.Measure is quantitative with mean median values

What are different datatypes in tableau?
String,geographical,time,booleans,clusters,date and time,text

What are different file extension in tableau?
.twb-workbook,.tbm-bookmark,.twbx-packaged bookmarks,extract-.hyper or.tde,data source-.tds,packaged data source-.tdsx

What are different shelves used in tableau?
columns,rows,filters and marks cards.Columns and rows we use for visualization.Filter for filtering data,marks cards for modifying visualization.

How tosort data in tableau?
Data cn be sorted invizualization view using-
1,.Quickly sort from axis,header or field label
2.sort options while creating viz.
3.nested sorts 



explan blend join and relationship. 
In blend, we connect 2 different data sources by common col,eg.forcustomer having more than 1 order, it is showing null.
Also,the measures are aggregated but dimensions are not.

Joins-left,full,right,inner-we get a product table.
Joining and blending is done on physical part

Relations- Relationships are on logical part.

-------------------------------------------

Groups-Create a group to combine related members in a field.Single labelcan be used tocombine different values.Can beused for both dimension or measure,
but generally used in dimensions.
Create a group-1.By selecting data in the view.2.Froma fieldin the datatype.

Assignment-
Display salesfor product group refrigerator ,phone and clock
Display sales value whichis less than 5 for category
Display profit and sales per customer group arranged alphabetically,eg Agroup,b group,etc.

-----------------------------------------------

Set- Set allows us to arange the data and related dimension values together.Create set for dimension only. Set automatically adjust the values either in/out.
sets are created based on some conditions.
Types of sets-
1.Fixed Set
2.Dynamic Set

In the datapane, right click a dimension and select create>set
In the create set dialog box,configure ur set-
1.General- Use the general tab toselect 1 or more values that will be considered when computing the set.
2.Condition-Use the condition tab to define rules that determine which members to include in the set.
 
Diffrence between Group and Set-
Group - Fixed(Manual),Single Label,Dimension/Measure,can be the basis of other group.
Set-Fixed(Manual) or Dynamic,In/Out,Dimension,Can be the basis of other set.

Logical Conditions can be applied on set.

-----------------
Bins- U can bin the data only for the relational dataset. Binned fields cannot be used in claculations.

Create a histogram from binned dimension-
Click the sales(bin) dimension in the datapane and choose convert to continuous.
Drag the sales(bin) dimension fromthe datapane and drop it on the columns shelf.
Drag the original Sales field from the measure area of datapane and drop it on the rows shelf.
Click sum(sales) on rows and change the aggregation from sumto count.

 





 






 