##################################
Tableau ITV Online--
-------------------
Here we will discuss about,
What is tableau, Tableau architecture and tableau product.

Overview of BI--
Data Mining-- is data preprocessing.
Analytical processing--Combining tables from diff sources.
Development-- Now that data is with us-- u can do feature eng.
Visualization-- Charts.

In tableau visualization is dashboards.

Magic Quadrant Salesforce crm

Tableau features-- 
1. Collaboration and Sharing-- same data should be visible to everyone.
And also should not be visible to everyone.
So secured sharing is very imp.

2. Real time analysis-- With live connection ,
automatically, data will be reflected.

3. In-memory data-- connection with live
data source and data extraction as in-memory.
This is done using cache data.

4. Advance visualizations. U can even create custom visulas.

5. Ask data is like questionari where u can ask quest
on natural lang.

6. Mobile view--Dashboards optimized for hand held devices.

--Tableau Product Suit--
Tableau desktop,
tableau public
both are used for development.
Data connection, publishing of sheet, etc, is possible in 
both of them.

Tableau server and tableau cloud are services.
U can upload and publish ur data in them.
So the sheets and dashboard u create in tableau dektop or 
public, u can upload in tabl server or cloud.

Tableau reader and tableau prep reader--

tab reader is like pdf. U cannot edit it.
tab prep is a special tool for data cleaning.

Now all these products have a trial period of 14 days.
Now tab public, cloud and prep are all free.

So we r going to use tab public and tab cloud.

Tableau desktop vs tableau public.

How tableau works--data -- data connectors

download tableau public-- 

wekend batch--tab/13march/9-12 pm.
1st.
54:51-- https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I82drehRlm_EfwEDF1prEbCB_lJDGpaT

Now, tableau public has limited connections.
Then in tableau desktopS2.pdf , show connectors of
tableau desktop.

Now in installed tableau-->file--> open from tableau public-->
got the tableau public sign in pop up-->
for 1st time create my account---> 
Parinita, Jain, parinita@itvedant.com, Pa$$word@2024
then sign in into the pop up,
u will see the data, that u can open.
This data is getting fetched from cloud.
click on any file and u can see, dashboard.

on the top left corner,tableau sign is there,
click that-- on the right corner, u will see,
viz of the day which tells about trending charts.

See, file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS2.pdf

Now, steps involved for creation of tableau report--
1. Connect to data source,
2. Choose dimensions and measures,
3. Apply visulaization technique.

D:\Parinita_itvedant\TableauItvedantOnline\Datasets--
Sample - EU Superstore

drag orders ,

currently, use data interpreter is unticked.
tick it, and u will see, cleaned data.

Now , once u drag table, U can even rename--
Orders (Sample - EU Superstore) to Orders (SampleSuperstore)

Now in tableau public , we donot get live or extract option.
Its always live connection.

filters we will see later.

In blending and joining we will see how multiple sources are joined.

So below file, tablue icon-- connect-- text file--
D:\Parinita_itvedant\PowerBi\PowerBI For teaching\Data--
 Car details v3.csv

Now the terminology u will see is files.
U can even change the db name.

from google drive-- it will ask for sign in

Now coming to step 2-- choose dimensions and measures.

So now we r at sheet level--

Dimensions are fields that can be considered as independent 
variable. For eg primary key.
So usually the fileds that cannot be aggregated and are used for 
row or col headings are dims, eg Regions.
i.e. We cannot apply mathematical ops on them.
eg string , date .

Then measures are the dependent variables, 
i.e. their values are functions of 1 or more dims.
Usually fields that can be measured , aggregated,
or used for mathematical ops.
eg. Sales.
So whole numbers, %,etc.

So tableau divides fields automatialy into dimensions
and measures.
Dims - blue colur, measures-- green colour.

So dims are qualitative
while measures are quantitaive.

Now going to sheet-- below click + sign, to get data sheet,
once the data is loaded.

file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS3-dataFileType,sort,blend,join,relationship.pdf

Tableau shelves and cards--
We have 4 shelves-- Cols, Rows, Filters and Pages.

Cols will create the cols, rows will create rows in visualization,
Filters will filter the pages, then pages will create different pages
of visualization.

1 Card is there-- which is a marks card.

Marks card controls the color, size shape,text and detail
of visualization.

So we use shelves and cards , to build the structure of ur
visualization, and control the number of marks 
in the view by including or excluding data.

Next is col shelves and row shelves--
Now we have a segment col  whose sub sections are
consumer, corporate and home office.

rows will be created by row shelf,
cols will be created by col shelf.

If you place dimension in column or row shelf, headers are created
If you place measure in column or row shelf, axes are created


Marks card--
Marks card is on the left hand side.
It has label detail,colr,size,tooltip,shape,etc.

So ur structure , intsead of bar chart,
u can also show by squares,etc.
Color,label everything u can change.

Filter shelf--

The Filters shelf allows you to specify which data to include and exclude
You can filter data using measures, dimensions, or both at the same time

Page Shelf--
This creates number of pages.
The Pages shelf ,break a view into a series of pages so you can better analyze how a specific 
field affects the rest of the data in a view.
We can try Day(order date) for break the view on workbook

Page shelf we will try with hierarchy chart.

Let’s try ourselves
• Create workbook which displays sales per segment for Furniture and technology only.
• Display Names of customer start with letter A with their Sales.
• State-wise Sales in UK Country.
• Monthly sales trends from Jan to Dec for 2017 and 2018

1.
shelves and card demo1--
drag and drop segment--cols

u r getting 1 orange colr highlighter,

u got the cols,
then in rows-- u got rows.

now put profit in col.

u can also swap it from menu bar.

U can rename to segment wise profit.

Now focusing on marks card--
color--
size
label-- tick it
detail--
tool tip.

Now on tooltip put profit.

now put segment on filter.

On filter,u can also put ,profit,
and u can set the range--apply--ok.

to remove filter segment-- right click on segment--
clear filter.

right click on sum(profit)-- remove filter.


2:12--
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I82drehRlm_EfwEDF1prEbCB_lJDGpaT
--04:13--

Q1,Q2-,Q3 and Q4
i.e. 
Create workbook which displays sales per segment for Furniture and technology only
Display Names of customer start with letter A with their Sales.
• State-wise Sales in UK Country.
• Monthly sales trends from Jan to Dec for 2017 and 2018

are related to filtering.


Q1. sales is a measure, while furniture and tech are dimensions.

Visualization--
col-- segment,category, rows-- sum(sales) 
now we want only furniture and technology.
so put category into filters, furniture and technology.

Noq put category into color.
u can also do like-- col--category,segment
u can change color.

U can change the view to entire view.

Q2.-- Display Names of customer start with letter A with their Sales.
measure--sales
dimension customer name.
So,
col--cust name,
rows-- sales
filter-- cust name
So in filter-- wildcard-- tick startswith, Match value-- A
-- Apply ok

Q3. State-wise Sales in UK Country.
measure -- Sales
Dimension-- Country,state.
filter-- country-- deselect all by none-- only select UK.

Q4. Monthly sales trends from Jan to Dec for 2017 and 2018

cols-- order date, rows-- sales
filter-- order date-- select year--tick 17, 18 only.
But we want to see complete month data from 17 , 18.
So,cols-- year(order date) -- right click--select month.

but this is not seperate year wise, so puy in--
col--year(order date),month(order date)

U can change the colr.

ctrl+s for save, gets saved into tableau cloud.

------
Data types in Tableau
text(String),date,date and time,
numerical,boolean values,geographic,cluster group.

u can change the datatype for a field
either on data source page or in data pane.

file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS3-dataFileType,sort,blend,join,relationship.pdf
How to change the data type?

So go to data source page--
Orders-- see the data type o diff cols.

So just right click on the datatype- change it to string
string-- change back to number.

--
Blend join and relationship--
Blend ,Join and Relationship
• These are used to combined different related tables horizontally having some common filed

So, col heading doesnt matter, Col value matter.

So drag and drop cols, it automatically blend and join them.

So basically we have to decide, whether to use join, blend or relationship.

Now blending is at sheet level,
join and relationship is on data source level.

D:\Parinita_itvedant\TableauItvedantOnline\Datasets
see Customer.xlsx,
Customer order.xlsx,
Products.xlsx

So create a new tableau workbook.

Blend :
• When two or more sheets have different level of details
• Different queries for different data sources are linked by common filed
• By default left outer join is done in blending
• Work on Primary and Secondary data source
where left is primary while right is secondry.

Its limitation--
More than one row for 
blending is not supported

so, 1st connect, customer.xlsx-- 
name db-- blend 1
sheet name-- blend

rows-- cust id, name, last name
marks-- text-- salary
edit <Sheet Name>Customer Name with Product Order and Sale Price

then new data source-- customer order.xlsx--
rename db to Blend 2.

now on that table drop sales from blend2.

once u drop it, u can see, chain kind symbol
appearing in front of cust id.

now i need product details,

So tableau sign -data source--products.xlsx
rename db-- blend 3.
Now goto blend sheet-- drop product name rows,
if u will notice, we got *,
because, its kind of a 1 to many relationship.
1 cust can place many orders.

So blending doesnt support 1 or more rows.

Now we have got sales from cust order,
becoz multiple cells are aggregated and 1 result is produced.
thats why aggreagtion between customer and 
customer -order is working.

Now to remove this limitation, either u can change
the join type, or u can change the primary and secondry 
data type.

So 1 st going with swapping, then with join.

Now on the ribbion, see the option
of clear sheet-- click that.

so now i am 1st selecting blend 2--
rows--cust id, rows id, prod id,
and then drop sales on table.

Next take blend 1-- 
rows-name,lastname,salary
then from 3-- 
rows prod name.

So now data is completely proper
with no stars.

here, cust 5 data is not visible,
becoz of left outer join.

so, we will go to joins.

Data Model(version 2020 onwards) has 2 layers.
• Data model as a diagram that tells Tableau how it should query data in the connected database 
tables.
• Two Layers:
1. Logical Layer implements relationship
2. Physical Layer

joins--

new wrkb. 
data source-- join-- customer
rename db-- join 1
Now in the rect, u can see cust written.
Double click on that and u will get physical layer.

next from connections add-- add a new table
customer -order, this will detect, joins betw them.

now click on that inner join  -- change to full outer.

then add products-- change join to full outer join.

then close the physical layer.
 U will not see any details on logical layer.

So now create new sheet-- join--
Now u can use any data, data will be visible to you
without any stars.

so put-- rows cust id, name, last name,
on table drop salary and sales.

See the salary, this is not correct. Right.
The salary is getting added that many times the cust
has orderd any product.

If u will drop product name on rows,
then this will not happen.

So the moment, we r removing prod name,
the values are getting aggregated.

So we can overcome this by relationship.

So new sheet-- rename relationship,
data source-- tableau design-- micro excel--
Customer open.
give db name-- Relationship Concept
so add new table-- customer order
3rd table -- products

then from sheets section drop customer order
and products.

now the line that we see in relationship is noodle line.
its cardinality is * to *.

so now come to sheet relationship.
rows-- cust id, name,last name,
then on table, drop salary and sales.


file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS4-group,set,bin.pdf
Next is Organizing and simplifying data by--
--Grouping the data.
Its like paper clip.


Let’s try ourselves
• Display sales for product group Refrigerator, Phone and clock
• Display sales value which is less than 5 for Category
• Display profit and sales per customer group arranged alphabetically.(e.g. A group, B group, 
etc.) 

so create 3 new sheets-- group1, group2,group3.

Now we will use sample superstore.

So data source--put orders sheet in middle.

group 1 -- change the sheet heading to Display sales for product group Refrigerator, Phone and clock
lly, for gp 2, and gp3.

Now come to gp 1--right click on produict name--
create-- group-- click on find--- find members--
Refrigerator--find all--then clcik on group
give name-- refrigerator.

Next in find members-- write phone--
find all-- group---reneme Phone--
lly find member-- clock, find all, group--
rename -- clcok
next tick include other
-- apply --ok

Next in group 1-- drop product name(group)
then drop sales.
then if u dont want to show other,
then drop product name group into filter
deselect other-- apply ok

So next gp 2---

So here we will create group of sales.

right click on sales--create group--

so press ctrl key and select all the values below 5.
-- group-- less than 5
-- include other -- for not less than 5.
U can even rename other to greater than 5.
--- apply -- ok

so now drag sales group and sales .

So now gp 3--
right click cust name-- create group--
then instead of contains write starts with.
find memebers-- A-- find all--group--rename A group
lly for B---B group
then incliude others-- rename to c-z groups.


Set--
Sets allows us to arrange the data and related dimension values together
• Create Set for dimension only
• Set automatically adjust the values either In/Out
• Sets are created based on some conditions
• E.g. set of books and set of pencils
Type of Set
1. Dynamic Set
2. Fixed Set

Now in group we r unable to give any mathematical condition.
So we have sets.
We have 2 conditions in set. In and out.
In are the members which satisfies given condition.
out which doesnt satisfy.


So create 2 sets, new sheet--nmae--set 1--General set and

then set 2-- conditional set

then set 3-- top or bottom set.

now-- set 1--cols-- sub category, rows-- profit

now for creating general set-- randomly select 
accessories, appliances,art and binders by ctrl key.
then if u will hover or right click,
u will get option of create set--rename Sub-Category General Set
-- ok

now put this into filter.
or u can even out them into color.

u can arrange them in anyway, it will be of same colr.

Now if u want to edit theis,
and u want to add another member,
then select by ctrl all of them,
click set sign-- click add to.

lly u can right click on sub-category general set,
and edit.

Next is set 2-- Conditional Set--

col- subcategory
rows-- profit

now , right click on sub category-- create--set
name--Sub-Category Conditional Set
condition--  by field-- profit-->=0,
next drop sub-category conditional set into color.

u can even edit out-- right click out on riht top
-- edit colr-- select red -- ok.

Now at a time , we can give 1 condition.

Next set 3--
right click sub category-- create --set-- top--
--Sub-Category top 3 set--
by field-- top-- 3 by profit--sum--ok

now drop this on colors.

u can even edit it.

then for bottom--
Sub-Category Bottom Set--by field-- bottom-3--
profit--sum--ok

Next is combined set-- ie. combining two sets 
to create new set.

Combine sets
To combine sets:
• select the two sets 
• Right-click the sets and select Create Combined Set.
• Type a name for the new combined set.
1. All Members in Both Sets - the combined set will contain all of the members from both 
sets.-- like full outer join
2. Shared Members in Both Sets - the combined set will only contain members that exist in 
both sets.-- like inner join
3. Except Shared Members - the combined set will contain all members from the specified 
set that don't exist in the second set.-- like left or right outer join
• Click Ok

So create new sheet-- combine set---
<Sheet Name> Both top and bottom in single view
col-- subcategory
row--profit

now click top set ctrl click bottom set
-- right click--combined set-- rename--Combined Set
-- select fulle outer--ok
next put combined set in color.

now sorting--by ribbion--
then next to axis
or right click on sub category--sort--manually
--then u can just click art clcik arrow button,
so now art is at the bottom.

--clear

next is nested sort--

put-- cols-- cateory,sub-category
rows-- profit
-- sort--nested sort--

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I82drehRlm_EfwEDF1prEbCB_lJDGpaT
--20-04-2024

file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/Tableau/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS5-charts,dual%20axis.pdf

Types of Charts and Graphs
• Bar Chart
• Line Chart
• Pie Chart
• Maps
• Scatter Plot
• Gantt Chart
• Bubble Chart
• Tree map
• Heat Map
2. Types of Reference Lines, Bands, Distributions, and Boxes
3. Dual Axis

Bar Chart
• Bar charts are especially effective when you have data that can be split into multiple categories.
• Quickly compare data across categories, highlight differences, show trends, and reveal historical highs and lows
at a glance.
• Many customization are allowed

tableau-- sample eu-store-- drop orders--
new sheet--rename sheet as bar chart
drag category into cols, sales into rows.

u can get the chart from show me section too.
enable labels from marks card.

new sheet-- satcked bar chart-bar inside bar
cols-- category
rows-- sales
color--region

So for satcked bar cahrt-- we need 2 dims vs 1 measure.

Side by Side bar chart--
cols-- category,region
rows-- sales

Put region in color too.

or u can also do 2 measure 1 dim--
i.e. cols-- category
rows-- sales,profit
color--category

new sheet-- rename-- histogram
Histogram shows freq distribution.
First we need to arange that on bins,
i.e. clustering of data.

So 1 st creating bins for sales value.
we can create bins of measures only.
So right click sales, create bin--
size of bins--200
now put sales on rows.
then drop sales on table.

now on label card-- instead of sum(sales) do cnt(sales)
show me-- bar chart

then click cnt(sales) on rows and convert
it into continuous.

this histogram is not available in show me.

So for hist -- cretae bins, then do continuous.
And compulsorily convert fre into count.

Next is line graph--
DIscrete vs continuous--
Line Graph
• Connects several distinct data points, presenting them as one continuous evolution
• View trends in data, usually over time (like stock price changes over five years or website page views for the 
month)


So, new sheet-- line chart, 
cols-- year(order date)
rows -- sales

from cols click on + and get quarter, month,date

next sheet-- discrete vs Continuous
same put -- cols-- order date, rows-- sales
get quarter(order date)
and see
further split to month and see
further split to day.
This is discrete

Next right click on day-- continuous,
lly,for month and quarter-- continuouas.

we got some series-- 

Now in cols put day(order date)- make it continuous,
rows-- sum(sales)

Also notie once u r changing to discrete conti,
the color is also changing.

Next is measure names and measure values.

Measure name is like col heading,
measure value is like actual col values.

cols-- measure names, rows-- measure values.

Now in the marks card, if u will do avg(profit),
measure names gets applied to filters by default.

Now, we can use measure values as kpi values.
So directly we can use them on dashboards.
This we can do by show me-- tables--

Next is pie chart--
its like slices of 100%.

Pie chart
• It simply organizes data in the form of a pie and divides it into slices. Each slice has a different 
size based on the magnitude of data.

cols-- category
rows-- sales

show me-- pie
next we will convert whole nos. into percentages.
Next-- drop sales into marks labels.
then marks sum(sales)--quick table calc--
percent of total

Next is dual axis--
here u can plot 2 seperate measures on
the same chart.

cols-- segment
rows-- profit and sales

rows--right click--sum(sales)-- dual axis
then from marks pane-- change from automatic to bar
And profit from automatic to line.
fit to entire view--
then u will see data is getting overlapped.

So we need to synchronize the axes.
So right click on diagram axis profit,
--synchronize axes.

So now donut chart--

new sheet-- donut chart--
so 1 st we need to create reference axis.
For that create calculated field--
so, on the left--next to search dropdown--
click-- create cal field-- Zero Axis-- put value 0--
apply--ok
next-- rows-- zero axis, zero axis

we got 2 marks cards for them.

So on the 1st plot pie, on the 2nd plot white ring
and we will get donut chart.

So on the 1 st marks card, put category on colrs and sales on labels.
then instead of automatic do pie.

then from size, increase size a little bit.

in the 2nd zero axis-- instead of automatic--
select circle-- color-- white

then right click -- rows-- sum(zero axis)-- dual axis
and then u can do % of taatl on 1st zero axis.

Next is maps--
Map
• Geographic information associated with your data can be displayed using maps
• Maps useful for postal codes, state abbreviations, country names

cols--country,
rows--profit

show me-- filled map
change color by clicking profit on right.

Next is symbol map--
col- country
rows--profit
show me--symbol map

U can put profit into marks size

So symbol map is generally used for showing density.
so from marks pane only, 
u can click on +country to get state,etc
We can convert these symbols into pie chart.
now put category into color
and sales into labels.
and instead of automatic selet pie.

Next is scatter plot--
Scatter Plot
• Use scatter plots to visualize relationships between numerical variables.
• You create a scatter plot by placing at least one measure on the Columns shelf and at least one
measure on the Rows shelf

cols-- profit
rows-- sales
what if we put cust name into detail.

so this is our scatter plot.
next to show individual customer,
we will use motion chart or page shelf.

motion chart is nothing but animation with page shelf.

so for that creating hierarchy.

Gantt bar chart-- for duration of activity

Use Gantt charts to show the duration of events or activities.
• In a Gantt chart, each separate mark (usually a bar) shows a duration.
• For example, you might use a Gantt chart to display average delivery time for a range of products.

col- week(order date)
sub-category,ship mode
color-ship mode

Heatmap/Highlighted Table--

Heat Map
• Use highlight tables to compare categorical data using color.
• create a highlight table by placing one or more dimensions on the Columns shelf and one or more dimensions
on the Rows shelf.
• Then select Square as the mark type and place a measure of interest on the Color shelf.
cols-ship mode,
rows-- sub category
drop sales on table.

show me-- heat map

Next is tree map---
Tree map
• Use tree maps to display data in nested rectangles. 
• You use dimensions to define the structure of the tree map, and measures to define the size or color of the 
individual rectangles.


cols-- category
rows-- discount
show me -- tree map

then increase category from marks pane.
The discount is highest on office suppllies,
min on tech accessories,etc.
For custome hierarchy--
right click cust name-- cretae custom hierarchy,
drop category into hierarchy,
then right click subcategory--
hierarchy-- add to hierarchy-- cusomer name

now arrange -- category, subcategory then cust name.

now, take customer name and put into page shelf.

put customer name hierarchy into colr.
cust name into page shelf,
Then from marks sheklf details-- remove  category
and subcategory

Then from drop down, u can select any customer.

So next to sq on right is a play button, clck that
and it will play.

this is motion chart.

file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/Tableau/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS6-parameter.pdf
Next is parameters--

A parameter is a workbook variable such as a number, date, or string that can replace a constant value in a
calculation, filter, or reference line.

1. Create
2. Show Control
3. Create calculated field
4. Use

so, 1 create parametre--
Name-- Enter value 1
datatype-- float
Current value is default value.--0
-- ok--
lly, for value 2.

then, right click parameters- show parameters.

Next calculaetd field--
name-- Result--
drag parameter value ,
so it will be like--
[Enter value 1]+[Enter Value 2]
-- apply--ok

Now put this result into marks text--
its showing wrong o/p.
so right click-- marks pane result--
attribute
now change value 1 --80,value 2--10
result will be there.

next parameter 2--
topN and botton

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I82drehRlm_EfwEDF1prEbCB_lJDGpaT
04-21
28:50

Parameter2--TopN and BottomN subcategories wise profit in Single Sheet

so,Use Cases for Parameter are--
1. Top N
2. Moving average
3. Date Range
4. Sort Stacked bar chart
5. Filter unrelated data source in dashboard
6. Dynamic dimension and measure

So, 1st we will see- subcategory wise what all data we have--

cols-- subcategory
rows--profit

sort in decreasing order.
Highest 2 are top and bottom 2 are bottoms.

So, here the top or bottom n value can change.
So for that we will create set.
So, right click sub category-- create set--name-- Sub-Category Top Set
--top--enter a value-- 5 -- ok

Now put  sub-category top set into marks color.

lly we can create set for bottom--
so,here we r getting either top or bottom.

So, we will have a combined set--so select both of them with control--
right click-- create combined set--name-- Top and Bottom Set

Now put top and Bottom Set.

Now for value of N we will create parameter.

so, creaet parameter-- Top N-- default value-- 3--ok

creaet parameter-- Bottom N-- default value-- 3--ok

Next show these 2 parameters.

Next to coonect paramerers with chart,
no need of creating calc field,

So goto sub-category top set--edit set--
instead of 5 choose top n parameter-- apply--ok

lly, for bottom n--

Next is, Parameter3--Dispaly Order date wise sale enterd by User

cols-- order date, rows-- sales--
right click order date-- exact date.

Now this data is too heavy.

So we will take start date and end date from user. ANd show it.
So we will need two parameters.

creae parameter-- enter start date-- datatype--date
current value-- 1/1/2015--ok

creae parameter-- enter end date-- datatype--date
current value-- 1/1/2018--ok

-- show both parameter

next creating calc field-- Date Range--just drag and drop--
[enter end date]>=[Order Date]AND 
[Order Date]>=[enter start date]

-- apply -- ok

Next u can put date range in filter--tick true--apply ok

file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/Tableau/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS7-Functions.pdf

Logical Function
• Logical functions allow finding whether the given condition is true or false.
• Logical functions are incredibly useful for building custom categorization
• Most commonly use logical functions are:
1. IF
2. THEN
3. ELSE
4. ELSEIF
5. IFNULL
6. IIF
7. AND
8. OR
9. CASE
10. END


Logical Functions-- rows-- sub category, drop sales

create calc field-- search logical-- inside logical-- search if--
name-- if function

IF [Category]="Furniture"
THEN "Fur"
ELSEIF [Category]="Office Supplies"
THEN "Off"
ELSEIF [Category]="Technology"
THEN "Tech"
END

-- apply--ok

next on rows-- if function

Next-- logical--IIF function-- we can write single line code.

new cal field-- IIF Function--
IIF(Sum([Sales])>100000,"Condiion is met","Condition not met" )-- apply---ok

So, rows-- category-- drop sales and on rows-- drop iif func.
u can also drop iif func on color.

U can also try with rows--subcategory.

Next is Logical Func 3-- Case function -- works lly with if.

CASE [Category]
WHEN "Furniture"
THEN  "Fur"
WHEN "Office Supplies"
THEN "Off"
WHEN "Technology"
THEN "Tech"
END

rows-- category, case function

if fun is also giving same o/p.

Next is Date function 1--create calc field-- Date function--Date("2024-01-01")--apply--ok

put this date function on marks text and see.

lly, we can have dateadd() and datediff().
DATEDIFF('year',[Order Date],[Ship Date])-- apply --ok

rows-- order date,ship date and drop datediff funtion-- instead of sum,
make it attr.

now edit DATEDIFF('day',[Order Date],[Ship Date])-- apply--ok

now right click --convert both into exact date, discrete

Now this o/p is average days of shipment.

now instead of attr , do avg and remove everything from rows.
So, 4.006 -- avg days of shipment.

Next is datename.

DATENAME('month',[Order Date])-- apply ok-- apply-- ok

datename into dim and datepart into dim.

rows-- datename function
drop attr(datepart function)

so datename returns month name but datepart gives numbers.

Next are String Functions

String Function
• String function are used to manipulate string data type of data in the data sources
• Tableau provides various string function to format or alter string data or substring.
• Most widely used string functions are:
1. CONTAINS
2. FIND
3. LEFT
4. LEN
5. RIGHT
6. STR

--new sheet-- string functions-- rows-- customer name

cretae calc field--Contains Function-- CONTAINS([Customer Name]," B")-- apply--ok
filter-- contains func--so all those names which have space B are coming in o/p.

Next is Find function-- FIND([Customer Name]," B")-- gives substr position.
drop find function-- change it to attr().

new calc field--Len of FirstName--[Find function]-1
next drop this func make it attr

right click on value--format--to convert into whole number--fields--select field-- drop down -- number(standard)

Next is lenth Function--LEN([Customer Name])--apply--ok

Next lenght of last Name= [Length Function]-[Len of FirstName]-1--

Now to get fname-- Left Function--LEFT([Customer Name],[Len of FirstName])

Next -- Right Function--RIGHT([Customer Name],[Length Of Last Name])

Next generating mail ids--so, cal fiedl--- mail id-- [Left Function]+[Right Function]+"@itvedant.com"
Edit mail id--LOWER([Left Function]+[Right Function]+"@itvedant.com")

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I82drehRlm_EfwEDF1prEbCB_lJDGpaT
04-27

file:///D:/Parinita_itvedant/Tableau/TableauItvedantOnline/Presentations/TableauS5-charts,dual%20axis.pdf

Types of Reference Lines, Bands, Distributions, and Boxes
• Reference Lines -
You can add a reference line at a constant or computed value on the axis. Computed values can be based on a
specified field.

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I82drehRlm_EfwEDF1prEbCB_lJDGpaT
04-27
2:00-- Analytics--reference line, ref band and distribution

So if we wnat to know, how many cell values are below the avg cell value,
how many above the avg of cell value,so for that 1st we need to take out avg of cell values.

so for this analytics part of tableau.

We can use ref line with parameter, with ref line or with constant.

New sheet-- reference line-- row sales, cols- segment
analytics-- if u want to plot average line--then from summarize,
otherwise  from custom reference line.

So pick up ref line from custom and drop,
8:00-- https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I82drehRlm_EfwEDF1prEbCB_lJDGpaT
4:27


now avg here is (1529716+920008+488365)/3
So we will do this using analytics .

drop ref line-- value--sum(sales),
avg,label--value,
if label=custom, then Average=<Value>

If average ke upar vale section ka colrs u can change--by fill above

if u want to put maximum-- then
value-- sum(sales),maximum,
label-custom, Max=<Value>
ok

we can even plot median. SO do changes for median.

next if on cols--region,segment, rows-sum(sales)
edit ref line-- scope-- per pane.
if scope is entire table, then it will be single line.
Not according to region.
So keep --per pane.

remove this line now.

now lets suppose , i want to take value as input from user,
then 

create parameter--Enter value for reference line
datatype-- integer,
display format-0,current value-0
--ok

right click -- show parameter.

So now, edit ref line--
value--choose parameter--enter value for ref line--
label--custom, New Target=<Value>

Now, whatever value user will give, that will be our target.

Next is ref band--
Reference Bands -
Reference bands shade an area behind the marks in the view between two constant or computed values on 
the axis.

We can manage on table level or per pane.

So new sheet-- reference band--

cols-- segemnt, rows- sum(sales)
plotting band from min to max value.

analytics-- drop ref band--entire table-- ok

instead of max -if u want avg --u can do that.
instead of max -- u can do median.

In the similar way , u can create parameter.

next is Reference Distributions -
Reference distributions add a gradient of shading to indicate the distribution of values along the axis.
this deals with percentiles.
Lets suppose we want to draw band from 20% to 40%.
So always distributions plot bands.

new sheet-- ref distribution
cols-- segmnet, rows- sales, labels
drop distribution band
u can edit-- value--20,50
here also we have parameter option.

Next is box plot.
col-- category rows-- sum(sales)
show me-- box plot

Next is trend line with line chart.
cols- order date
rows-- sales
Analytics-- trend line

Next is forecasting--
cols-- month(order date)
rows-- sum(sales)
labels on
analytics-- forecast

Now forecast doesn't work on exact dates.

Next is new sheet-- Statistical Summary Card
cols- sales, rows-- profit
detail-- customer name

now next to from where we set view, there is 
show/hide card-- summary

Next is Dashboard--
new -- sample eu superstore -- orders
1. new sheet--Sales KPI
text marks-- sales
order date on filters--year--tick 2018

Now rename heading to Sales-- bold,12,blue,middle alignment
next right click on 1,042,204 -- format--fields-- select--
pane--font--18,bold,blue,middle alignment

next duplicate this sheet.
text--profit.
Renmae heading-- Profit


next is new sheet-- units Sold--text-- Quantity
format--18--blue colr,bold

Next is line chart-- new sheet-- Sale Trend
cols-- Order date
rows-- sales
drop trend line
Now axis values are getting shown.
So just right click--untick show header
from both axis

next duplicate this sheet--instead of sales put profit.

Again duplicate-- instead of Profit put Quantity
rename sheet-- Units Sold Trend

Next new dashboard-- Demo Dashboard

So here we don't have shelves.
We have default device preview.

So device preview-- device type-- desktop

leave it by default to default.
Size-- automatic
Then we have sheet names.
Then we have objects.

So double click on text.
Give title of sheets.
ABC ltd Executive Report--22 , bold, middle

But now this is in our complete sheet.
So use vertical object.
drag and drop vertical object.

Next drop horizontal container
And adjust its size for putting filters.
Then divide the bigger right portion by putting
vertical container.
Keep the top area lesser than below one.

Next on the top horizontal container make 5 partitions.

Next on starting 3 partitions, drop sale trend,
profit trend and units sold trend.
Next below lines, put sales kpi, profit kpi 
and unit solds kpi.

Next we need to design.
So edit title, Sales--bold, center,15.
Then below it, right click on title, hide title.
Also right click-- see drop down i.e.--more options--
fit to entire view,

lly, for Profit and Units Sold.

Next -- new sheet-- Profit By Segment
col-- segment, row-- profit, show me== pie
entire view-- give labels,
text-- segment,profit

Next on dashboard-- drop Profit By Segment
Delete extra info coming.

Next on sheet--Profit by ship mode--
cols-ship mode, row--profit.

Next in dashboard just drag and drop.

next, in the filter section,
u can see some filters, so that is alright.
Leave them there.

u can save this as workbook.

Now next new sheet-- Sales By Subcategory
this we will do by Tree map. 
This helps in showing level by level hierarchy.

So creating hierrarchy-- With Category,
so right click category-- name-- Product Hierrachy
Next sub category-- add to hierarchy
Next, click on product name-- add to hierarchy--Product name

cols-category, rows-- sales
show me-- tree

Next diiding below part of hori section into 2.
and put sales by subcategory-- fit entire view.

Next is Count of Orders and Returns.
Orange line will be count of return.
In data source we have count of order.

So we will use relationship with retruns.
So, indata source,
 drag retruns and drop next to orders.

so we r only applying on relationships on logical level.
no joining, no blending.
So bcoz of this, data in other sheets will not change.

So now goto sheet10,
u will see returns.

Next,in rows put orders,retruns
cols-- order date--keep month

next right click on month-- continuous

next cnt(orders) -- convert it into bar using
marks pane.
show me--choose dual axis
rename sheet- Orders And Returns--B,center

Next going to dashboard--drop this sheet.
Next pick its legend on the left corner
and drop below order and returns in dashboard.

next sheet-- Today's date
Next we need footer-- 
new calculatefd function--Today Function
TODAY()--apply--ok

Put this function on label. Make exact date from marks pane.

Cretae new partition on top right-- put today's date,
hide title-- format date--15,B

Next creating footer.
search copyright symbol.
https://symbolsdb.com/copyright-symbol#different-styles-- copy from here.

So create calc field--Footer
"© "+DATENAME("year",TODAY())+" ABC Ltd. All Rights Reserved "

--here we have used Datename bcoz
we cannot concatenate number with string.
Rest of the thing is String so date also in string.
-- apply--ok

Drop this footer into text.

Next in dashboard create vertical container.
drop footer.-- fit to entire view-- format.

Next goto any sheet. eg. Profit By Segment
drag region and drop on filter-- default select all- apply.

lly, drag country and drop to filter--

Next we want these filter to be applied
on all the sheets.

So, right click on region on filter-- apply to worksheets
--all using related data source.

lly, to Country

Now, select sales by subcategory from dashboard,
dropdown-- filter-- country, region

Make it single value dropdown

drag country below region.

next, drag text and drop over region--
Nmae it Selection--14,Bold

next adjust it.

Next goto Profit KPI sheet-
create calc filed-- Check Profit or Loss
SUM([Profit])>0
put this in color.

Now from Dashboard-- region--all, countyr-- Netherlands
So,goto Profit KPi--change the false color kpi,
to red.

So how to check performance of our dashboard--
in the server -- there is run optimizer--

So, once our dashboard is created-- hide all the sheets.

so right click on dashboard-- hide all sheets.

Next -- run optimizer again--
1st see for unused fields--in datasource--
So from data source-- u can hide these unused cols.

If u want to bring hidden fields-- next to rows-- settings
is there-- from there u can bring hidden fields.

Next our dashboard size is automatic--convert it 
to fixed size

Action Filter-- its types are-- filter,url and type.
This u only get at dashboard level and not at sheet lvel.

Son on tab-- dashboard-- actions--add action--
filter,highlight,goto url,
goto list , these all r for navigation.
rest 2 r optional
and donot directly affect the dashboard.
So, 1st filter-- we have source sheet 
and target sheet.
Kaun sa sheet select karne ke badd
ye action perform hona chahiye is ur source sheet.
So, source sheet is sales by subcategory.

run action on is like a mouse hover,select,
menu,single select only.
so select select.

then kaun kaun se sheet effect hone chahiye,
so tick all the sheets accept tree map,
today;s date and footer.--ok

Next is Highlight--
So cretae new sheet---Demo Of Customer Details

rows-- customer id, customer name,category,
sub-category.
drop sales,profit,quantiy.
and from show me select tables.

create dashboard 2-- size--automatic
put demo of customer details sheet here.

To navigate from dashboard 1 to dashboard 2,
for this we can use go to sheet and highlight option.
So 1st goto sheet.
So we want to go from demo dashboard1 to dashboard2.

Demo dashboard1-go to sheet--demo dashboard--
tick profit by segment,
run action on--select
target--dashboard2

next click on any part of profit by segment-- 
u will goto dashboard2.
and new sheet-- Profit By Ship mode

So,now highlight--
Dashboard-- action--highlight--
tick sales by category--
taregt sheets-- dashboard2--tick--demo of cust details--
target highlighting-- selected fields-- sub-category

So now, when we click on copiers-- related data
will be highlighted on dashboard2.

Next is go to url--
So cretae new sheets-- Country wise Sales--
cols-- Country, rows-- Sales
filters-- Country, region
now from show me-- filled map--
color--country, 
label-- sales,country

Next in dashboard2--drop horizontal container--
drop country wise.
Now i want , when i click on sweden,
a wikipedia regarding sweden will open.

So now dashboard-- actions-- go to url--
Name-- hyperlink1,
source sheet-- country wise sales,
run action on-- select
url taregt-- new browser tab
url-- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweden
Now, when we r clicking Denmark-- it is opening
same url-- So edit hyperlink1--
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/<Country>

Next we will insert, web page here only,
So on the left, in objects-- web page--
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki

edit url action-- url target-- we page object--








 






















 






 























 














